hello this is chef john from food wishes
comm with drunken mussels that's right I
like my shellfish like I like my sellers
and this is one of the easiest shellfish
recipes ever and once you have your
ingredients together this thing takes
about ten minutes start to finish so
here's how you do it the first and most
important ingredient of course is the
mussels these are from Prince Edward
Island you'll see them in a seafood case
it'll say PEI they should be incredibly
fresh they need to be scrubbed really
well and rinsed off and if you see any
of those little beards attached pull it
off mine really didn't have any and
we're pretty clean and as far as
portioning I usually go with like about
a pound of mussels per person all right
so our mussels are set onto the rest of
the ingredients so I'm gonna need you to
mince up some garlic you can use regular
garlic but you know what I found some
green garlic in the market and I decided
to use that so just like using green
onions I'm pretty much gonna use the
white and light parts and I'm gonna
mince it up nice and fine and again
don't feel bad if you don't find green
garlic regular garlic works
extraordinarily well and is incredibly
delicious so don't even worry about it
okay this is one of those recipes it's
super easy but you need to get all your
ingredients prepped ahead of time which
is called of course mise and pause okay
so our garlic's ready we're gonna set
that aside next we're gonna do some
Italian parsley and you know my method
for this you hold the stems you hold
your knife sharp knife at a 45 degree
angle and you just shave off all the
leaves so easy
do not pick parsley leaves off the stems
takes too long alright and once we've
done that we just give it a chop not too
fine alright something like that and
other than a little bit of lemon zest
and red pepper flakes that's about it
all right so we're gonna head over to
the stove where you need a stockpot like
this with a tight-fitting lid all right
very very important so make sure you
have that before you even think of
starting this recipe we're gonna throw
in a chunk of butter I'm gonna put that
on medium heat and once it melts we're
gonna add our garlic we're gonna give
that about a 30-second sizzle after
which I'm gonna add my red pepper flakes
I like this a little bit spicy but you
know I like most things a little bit
spicy so I'm gonna add a big pinch of
those give that about 15 seconds in the
butter at that point I'm gonna add my
lemon zest
I used a zester to get those nice thin
strands you could also grade it on the
microplane you've seen us do both many
times so the lemon zest goes in
you give that about 30 seconds and then
quickly pouring your wine okay the wine
stops the cooking we do not want to burn
or brown the garlic so that whole
process of sauteing the garlic the
pepper and the lemon zest only took
about a minute
once the wines in I give it a few turns
of freshly ground black pepper you
generally don't need salt the mussels
have enough natural salts so be careful
when seasoning and at that point our
drunken mussel broth is ready we're
gonna place on the lid we're gonna turn
the heat to high and we're gonna bring
this to a boil as soon as it boils
you're gonna quickly throw in your
mussels don't throw any of the ice in if
you had them sitting in water or
something like that you want to drain it
you just want the mussels you're gonna
quickly place the lid back on and by the
way I'm so glad I wore a shirt for this
video
generally I cook topless all right so
the lids on we're gonna give the pot the
old shake of sheikha and let it sit
there undisturbed for exactly one minute
after one minute remove the lid take a
spoon and give it a quick stir just like
that couple turns place the lid back on
and wait two minutes after which you
should be getting close you're gonna see
lots of the shells opening in fact back
right you can actually see it opening so
cool at that point we're gonna dump in
our Italian parsley give it another stir
put the lid back on and as soon as those
shells are open you're done it might
take another minute it might take
another two minutes it could take
possibly one-and-a-half minutes or three
minutes the point is who knows go by
sight when it looks like they're all
open you're done alright the shells
should be open like that the mussel
should still be huge implanting gorgeous
and not shriveled and pathetic alright
the only way to screw this recipe up is
to keep boiling these after they open
and of course if there's a couple that
don't open that's not so unusual just
throw those away and deal with the good
ones okay to serve you're gonna want to
transfer those into a big wide Bowl of
course you're gonna ladle over copious
amounts of that amazing drunken mussel
broth I highly suggest you serve it with
some lemon and some grilled bread of
course if you're having grilled problems
I feel bad for your son but you could
just use a toaster instead and that's it
drunken mussels how fast and easy was
that
and of course drunken mussels is just a
generic term for mussels steamed in any
kind of alcoholic beverage
I've done this with beer with things
like sherry of course you don't have to
use alcohol you could use some clam
juice or just some water is it as good
of course not
not even close all right so let me dig
in here I'm gonna take my freakishly
small metal fork and dip that muscle in
that amazing broth garlicky spicy lemony
just unbelievable and while dipping the
muscle in that broth is pretty awesome
nothing compares to how awesome dipping
the bread in there is it's just
spectacular and if you're feeling extra
sexy I like to place it on the bread and
drizzle some of that buttery garlicky
wine broth over it's just a very special
experience that I hope you experience
especially so head over to food whooshes
calm for all the ingredient amounts and
more info as usual and as always enjoy